Dated
2007
[Individual] (Deposit Licensor)
and
National Digital Learning Repository
INDIVIDUAL DEPOSITOR LICENCE AND SUB-LICENCE AGREEMENT
BC.VC.082:12.03.07
THE HIGHER EDUCATION AUTHORITY (“HEA”) through the National Digital Learning
Repository (“NDLR”) is funding a teaching and learning electronic materials repository (the
“Repository”).
The deposit licence mechanisms are currently under negotiation between HEA, NDLR and
the universities and designated institutions funded by the HEA, as well as the Institutes of
Technology designated in the Institutes of Technology Act, 2006. (These bodies are
collectively described as “the funded bodies and Institutes” in this Agreement. )
In order to stimulate the process of depositing materials into the Repository, prior to the
conclusion of the above mentioned deposit licence mechanisms between the HEA, NDLR
and the funded bodies and Institutes, the HEA, through the NDLR hereby seeks to provide
individual academics and researchers employed within the funded bodies and Institutes with
the opportunity to deposit teaching and learning materials, owned by you or duly licensed to
you, on the terms and conditions as set out in this Agreement.
The deposit of these materials thereby gives the NDLR a licence to hold these materials in the
Repository and you, the depositor, grant to the NDLR a right to sub-licence the use of such
deposited materials within the funded bodies and Institutes.
Acceptance of this Agreement will be by delivery of a completed acceptance of licence form
attached hereto to NDLR.
RECITALS
WHEREAS the NDLR seeks to provide academics and researchers employed within the
funded bodies and Institutes with the capacity to deposit and licence the NDLR to grant
access to teaching and learning materials;
AND WHEREAS the deposit licensor is responsible for clearing all Intellectual property
rights owned by third parties in the deposited materials before materials are deposited in the
Repository;
AND WHEREAS the deposit licensor warrants that he/she is employed as an academic or
researcher within one of the funded bodies or Institutes;
AND WHEREAS the NDLR will only allow access to the Repository to authorised users
who are affiliated to one of the funded bodies or Institutes.
THE NDLR AND THE DEPOSIT LICENSOR HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1.
DEFINITIONS
1.1 Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the terms used in this
   Agreement shall follow the definitions found in other HEA/NDLR
  documentation.
1.2 “DEPOSIT LICENSOR” means the person identified at the beginning of this
       document. In the case of a deposit of materials that have been created by
      academics and researchers from more than one funding body or Institute, the
     representative of the funding body or Institute that is recognised by any
Agreement to be, or in default of Agreement de facto is, the lead institution,
and the person who represents the lead institution shall be regarded as the
deposit licensor.
2.
AGREEMENT
2.1 2.2 
3.
The Deposit Licensor agrees: (a) to deposit the Licensed Material in the
Repository and allow NDLR to create the metadata as provided for in Clause
4.1(g) to grant to the NDLR a licence to use the Licensed Materials on the
terms as set out in Clause 3.
In consideration for the Licensed Material and the Deposit Licensor’s
 licensing of the Licensed Material pursuant to Clause 3.1, the NDLR agrees:
(a) to make the Licensed Material available to Authorised Institutions and
Authorised Users for Educational Purposes in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement; (b) to ensure the future preservation and accessibility of the
Licensed Material; (c) to acknowledge authorship of the Licensed Material in
accordance with the instructions of the Deposit Licensor.
LICENCE AGREEMENT
3.1 3.2 
4.
The Deposit Licensor hereby grants to NDLR a non-exclusive, royalty free
licence to use the Licensed Material in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this Agreement and to sub-licence the use of the Licensed
material for use in the funded bodies and Institutes in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement.
It shall be for the NDLR to consider the precise circumstances in which access
to the deposited materials will be permitted during the period of the licence, in
particular the circumstances in which downloading or printing of the deposited
materials will be permitted.
PERMITTED USES
4.1
Without prejudice to clause 3.2 above, the NDLR may:
(a) mount the Licensed Material on a Secure Network;
(b) incorporate the Licensed Material in the Repository however
   constituted;
(c) communicate, make available and distribute the Licensed Material in
   any variety of formats and media;
(d) provide access and allow use of the Licensed Material by Authorised
   Experts;
(e) create and display static screen shots of the Licensed Material on a
   publicly available web site or network for publicity purposes;
(f) make copies of the Licensed Material as are technically necessary to
   ensure efficient use by Authorised Experts;
(g) catalogue, enhance, incorporate and Modify metadata, and re-format
   the Licensed Material in any way to ensure its future preservation and
  accessibility;
(h) grant sub-licences to Authorised Institutions permitting the following
   uses of the Licensed Material by Authorised Users for Educational
  Purposes only:-
(i) to access the Licensed Material in order to search, retrieve,
   display and download;
(ii) to Excerpt, Annotate, Aggregate and Modify the Licensed
    Material;
(iii) to electronically save any part or parts of the Licensed Material
     and Modifications;
(iv) to print out copies of the whole or any part or parts of the
    Licensed Material and Modifications;
(v) to incorporate any part or parts of the Licensed Material and
   Modifications in virtual learning environments, managed
  learning environments and in any material to be used in the
 course of instruction provided that by so doing the Repository
will not be accessible to persons who are not Authorised Users.
Course and study packs in non-electronic non-print perceptible
form, such as Braille, may also be compiled;
(vi) to display, download, print any part or parts of the Licensed
    Material for the purpose of promotion of the Licensed Material,
   the Unit Repository or for training other Authorised Users.
(vii) to display and/or publicly perform any part or parts of the
     Licensed Material and Modifications as part of a presentation at
    a seminar, conference, or workshop, or other such similar
   activity; and
(viii) to use the Licensed Material and Modifications for such other
uses as may be conducive to the Educational Purposes.
4.2
5.
Where the Licensed Material is used in accordance with clause 4.1(h)(ii)
above, each item incorporating the whole or part or parts of the Licensed
Material shall carry appropriate acknowledgement of the source, title, first
publication date and copyright owner.
RESTRICTIONS
5.1
Neither the Deposit Licensor, the NDLR or any person authorised to access
material deposited in the Repository may:
(a)
sell or resell the Licensed Material and/or modifications;
(b) remove, obscure or modify copyright notices, text acknowledging or
   other means of identification or disclaimers as they may appear
  without prior written permission of the rights owner;
(c) use all or any part of the Licensed Material for any Commercial Use or
   for any purpose other than Educational Purposes unless with the
  consent of the Licensor;
(d) display or distribute any part of the Licensed Material on any
   electronic network, including without limitation the Internet, and the
  World Wide Web, and any other distribution medium now in existence
 or hereinafter created, other than by a Secure Network.
5.2 5.3 
6.
This Clause shall survive termination of this Agreement for any reason.
The Deposit Licensor is free to use the Licensed Material and metadata
created in respect of the Licensed Material elsewhere without seeking the
permission of NDLR.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
6.1 6.2 The Deposit Licensor hereby warrants that the material deposited does not
       contain any materials that may be considered defamatory or obtained in breach
      of any other legal obligation owed to a third party, including, but not restricted
     to, privacy law, data protection law, the law of confidence, contract or tort.
6.3 
7.
The Deposit Licensor shall arrange to obtain all necessary consents and
permissions in respect of intellectual property rights (including material rights)
prior to making the deposit and shall indemnify and hold harmless NDLR in
respect of any claim arising out of any failure to obtain the necessary consents
and permissions.
The NDLR may, at its absolute discretion, remove any licensed material or
modification, or disable access to such material following on from any Third
Party complaint that such material is illegal under Irish law.
TERMINATION
7.1 This Deposit Licence Agreement shall be terminable at any time by either
   Party, providing three months written notice of a desire to terminate the
  Licence is given.
7.2 In the event that the funding body or Institute to which the Deposit Licensor is
   employed becomes a party to the HEA/NDLR Institutional Licence
  Agreement, this Individual Deposit Licence Agreement will be superseded by
 the HEA/NDLR Institutional Licence Agreement and all materials deposited
under this Agreement shall become subject to the HEA/NDLR Institutional
Licence Agreement, from the Effective Date as provided in that HEA/NDLR
Institutional Licence Agreement.
Signed __________________________ (Deposit Licensor ______________ (date)
Signed on behalf of NDLR ______________________ on ______________ (date)

